# Building that AI Editor I've always wanted

During my college years, I distinctly remember my technical writing professor
inviting me to his office. He remarked that, among all his students, I had more
original ideas than any of his students, but that I also really needed help
expressing them clearly.

With all sincerity he advised me that, as soon as possible, I should hire an
editor to help articulate my thoughts.

Over the years, I’ve had coaches, mentors, and advisors – but to date – the most
impactful way I’ve found to express myself is in software.  Since the age of 13,
most days, nights, weekends, and vacations have been spent writing various types
of code.   It’s what I do. Much of this has changed since CoPilot came on to the
scene; I do the thinking – it straightens out the content.  I love it.  I can’t
live without it – I even have invested in local LLM’s, using Meta’s Llama, just
so I can keep working even when disconnected. At Microsoft I've been doing a lot
of writing for a vision of telemetry that is slowly gaining traction.  Without
diving too deeply in it now, it’s called Dynamic Telemetry and as of writing
there are a few 100 documents of content. I really could use that editor.

I want to ask the editor if my content has gaps, if I've overemphasized one
topic, or not explored another enough.

I'd like an objective assessment of whether I've covered each topic thoroughly
and where my document's strengths and weaknesses lie, like testing code.
…basically, I want to test my writing, like I test my code.

This weekend was the 4th of July, and some of my tech friends and I were I
discussing how we use AI in our daily workflows—all of us have built AI agents
to automate routine tasks. One friend, Tim, even shared on LinkedIn about using
command line tools for repetitive jobs, sparking further discussion.

This got me thinking could I write a tool that serves as this editor that I've
always wanted would never have had?  Could I write an interactive chat bot that
knows and understands the content and could answer questions that I have to poke
and prod looking for gaps in my explanations.

If I could this would provide a sort of road map for where I can strengthen
content or pull content if I'm already too wordy. Well in short yes I've made a
simple chat bot using Copilot in VS Code, Azure Search, and AzureAI.

In fact that vibe coded it in less than an afternoon.

I can't expand on this now but let me know in the comments if you'd like a
tutorial.  What I did isn’t rocket science, but you probably do need to be a
programmer. Meanwhile, feel free to try my editor—I'll keep it running as long
as it's not abused.
